[Music]
right
I'm not gonna hurt you
[Music]
we try to do everything we can to keep
our kids safe but even we adults don't
always know what to do in all situations
we are sure that as the school year
starts once again it won't hurt to make
sure your children know all the safety
rules in this video we will tell you
about sixteen safety questions you can
ask your kids you can even print them
out and give them as a test believe us
some of the answers will most likely
surprise you number 16 what should you
do if your parents are away and someone
is trying to open the door
[Music]
if someone is trying to break into the
house when the child is alone the child
needs to call their parents before
calling 911 this might sound strange but
the thing is the conversation with the
rescue service will take some precious
time that parents could use to call
their neighbors the math is simple it
takes a minute to call the parents and
tell them about what's going on and then
there are three people the kid and two
parents informing others instead of only
one frightened child
besides parents can try to calm their
child down and remind them how to call
the rescue service and what to tell them
[Music]
number 15 should you take candy from a
stranger
it is absolutely unacceptable to take
food toys or any other things from
strangers you have to teach your child
that they can only occasionally take
something from your neighbors who you
know very well but no one else there's
no such thing as a free lunch and your
child must know this from a very early
age
number fourteen
what should you do if the power socket
starts steaming and there's no one else
at home well your child should know that
if there's a risk of fire in your house
or apartment they must never try to put
out the fire on their own the first
thing they should do is get out of the
building as fast as possible only when
they are outside they should call the
fire brigade their parents and ask
neighbors for help
[Music]
number 13 an adult stranger is asking
for help should you help them if someone
is asking your child for help they
should just clearly say no and leave
don't get us wrong helping people is
nice but only when they really need help
and if they do they will turn to adults
first how can a child help
number 12
[Music]
what should you do if you're attacked by
a pack of dogs that panicking is the key
in this situation fast mover loud noises
can only provoke animals to attack if
the kid has a school bag they should
throw it aside to try to divert the
dog's attention only then the child
should start to move away from the dogs
without turning their back to the path
[Music]
number 11 you've just met someone your
age should you go to their place if
invited children or adults strangers can
be very dangerous and your child should
be well aware of that no matter how
friendly somebody seems they can turn
out to be anyone your child should
understand it there is nothing wrong
with refusing an invitation there are
always excuses like I have homework to
do or my parents will be worried only
when the kids get to know each other
better they can visit each other's
places
[Music]
number ten what should you do if you
smell gas at home
[Music]
this is just like the fire situation
walking outside and calling the fire
brigade is the best course of action
number nine if you're waiting for an
elevator and some strangers come up
should you go with them being locked in
a tight space with a group of strangers
can be extremely dangerous there is
nowhere to turn if something bad happens
so children should turn down such offers
they can just say that they are waiting
for their parents who are on the way
[Music]
number eight what should you do if you
notice you're being watched
[Music]
if a child notices that someone seems to
be following them they should head
straight to any public place a
supermarket a park a hair salon once
they are surrounded by people they are
safe so they can just call their parents
and ask them to pick them up number
seven if you are home alone who can you
let in no one the child doesn't know
whoever they seem to be whatever they
look like children should never open the
door to strangers they can pose a great
threat so it's better to call the
parents and ask them what to do number
six
what should you do if a stranger grabs
you and doesn't let you go in such a
critical situation they should do
whatever it takes to either go free or
attract people's attention there is
nothing wrong about shouting and
fighting they can also pick up a rock
and throw it at the nearest car to
trigger the alarm it's quite possible
that the abuser will get scared and ran
away himself number 5 what should you do
if you find yourself in a large crowd of
people teach your children to avoid
crowds if this happened anyways they
should know that moving against the
crowd is the worst thing they can do
they should try to gradually approach
the edge of the crowd and get out of it
if a child Falls they should take the
fetal position and cover their head
[Music]
number four what should you do if you're
on the street during a large
thunderstorm finding a safe play should
be the top priority any place will do a
shot a ball and entrance-hall
it's not safe to stay near metal
structures cars pools or water or tall
trees the lightning is always looking
for the nearest way to the ground so if
you are your child find yourself in the
middle of the field don't try to run
what you should do is lie down on the
ground and wait until the thunderstorm
ends called and dirty but safe and sound
number three
what should you do if someone is
threatening you or your family on the
internet children must know that their
parents are people who they can trust
and if anything bad happens they can
come to them for help if you find out
that your child is threatened on the
internet you should tell your child that
there is no way the bad guys can get to
them after that call the helpline and
explain the situation they will take the
necessary measures
number two your friends want you to play
with them on the frozen river will you
go playing hockey skating or any other
activities that involve ice should be
practiced only in specially designed
places rivers no matter how thick the
ice seems to be are very dangerous
falling under the ice can lead to
terrible consequences so just get them a
skating rink membership to keep them
safe and number 1 can you take medicine
from the first-aid kit if your parents
are away all medicine that you have at
home should be hidden in a place where
your child can't get to it
if they are old enough tell them that
medicine is very dangerous which is true
and you don't allow them to use it in
your absence tell them to call you or
other relatives if they are feeling
unwell
[Music]
so did that help like this video if you
found some of the questions useful if
you have a different opinion on any of
the answers we described please leave a
message in the comment section below and
share this video with your friends to
keep their children safe - see you next
time on the bright side of life